In this section we're going to make our final lap the shooter up in the app.
You just aim and shoot
so open up X code create and you project a single application.
Call the project a shooter press next and create like always go to the main storyboard.
Let me just resize my X code project and tear initial The controller.
Are kids seeing a view to the middle expand your air kids scene give you to the edges of your super
view and now pin it to the top bottom leading and trailing space at a button to the center of your air.
Kitsune give you and pin it horizontally as well as vertically
in your resources folder.
I placed an image of this plus icon.
We're going to use it for this button.
So into your assets folder make a new image set.
Call the set plus and drag your plus icon right into your image assets folder.
The second and third one to maximize the go to and back to your storyboard.
Remove this default text that you have for the button and give it the image itself.
Plus open up the assistant editor and link your arcade seem you two your controller with ibl this scene
view import air kit clothes the assistant editor and back to your Wii controller.
We need to declare a constant configuration now since downloading the new tax code they change our world
tracking session configuration to just say our world tracking configuration.
You probably already have this on yours.
Now just write self-deceit view session.
Run configuration.
I hope you've memorized it this step by now.
Now just write self-trust scene view debug options is equal to an array type of debug options such that
we're showing the world origin and were also showing feature points right.
And the final step which you're probably already aware of is to declare a property privacy camer use
description to prevent these are to enable the camera.
Add a descriptive message saying you need the camera to display cool or content.
Now back to your view controller let me just put some lighting so self-deceit viewed.
Auto enables default lighting is equal to true.
This just makes everything look better by providing an omni directional light in all directions of your
scene.
So the first thing we want to do is place our targets in the scene.
View our eggs in your resources folder.
I placed the scene file of an egg which I got from Turbo's dot.
I already told you how to download 3D models from Turbo squid.
If you're not sure how to download and use a 3D model make sure to revisit the section where we built
our jellyfish up anyway.
Drag this egg into your X code project like so and we have to put it in an SC and assets folder.
Now since downloading the X code for some reason they made it harder to place stuff in the CNN assets
folder you'll see how in a bit.
So go to your acid catalog press next and create.
Now if I can just convert this to an SC and assets folder
fine just try to place this in the CN assets folder.
It's almost impossible to do so.
So the workaround that I found for it is to actually press add files to media as assets click on eg
press add and even then it still doesn't work.
So what you have to do now is to close your X good project open it again.
And now the egg scene file is still not even in your folder.
But now you can drag it in.
This is a really big pain.
But every time X code updates its platform it comes with its fair share of bugs and now delete this
and instead of putting moved to trash.
Make sure you put remove reference and we should be good to go from here.
Now we need a button which whenever pressed displays this egg as a target.
So into your storyboard add a button to the bottom of your view controller called the button and targets
pivot horizontally.
And 30 pixels from the bottom of your controller.
And that constraint going to give the sponge a custom font.
So click on custom and the font itself will be venir next with a size of 70 and looks good and a style
of bold done.
And now open up the assistant editor to link this one to the View Controller with an IAB action and
targets connect.
I put an IB outlet instead of an IB action.
Let me just fix that mistake by unlinking the outlet and linking a new action.
So action targets connects
close up.
The assistant editor and back to your controller.
Whenever we press this button we're going to place three eggs in the same view.
So declare a function add egg with arguments x of type float.
I forgot the fun keyboard right here.
An argument why F-Type float and arguments of type float as well with no return value.
And call this function three times and not target.
So self egg and the first egg we're going to place is going to be five metres to the right of the world
the origin 0 metres vertically it's going to be perfectly aligned with the origin and negative 40 meters
behind the origin.
So even though I'm positioning the eggs far away very far away this egg is so large that you'll still
be able to see it.
This is three metres wide four metres high and three meters deep.
That's about the size of a room and it makes sense to position the eggs so far away since we want the
bullet to travel a long distance.
So the other end by writing self-taught egg this egg is going to be aligned horizontally with the world
origin vertically with the warlords.
And it's also going to be 40 meters away from us the origin and now we're self-taught at Egg for the
third one which is going to be five metres to the left 0 metres from the origin so perfectly aligned
and negative 40 meters away behind us behind the origin.
Now inside of an egg we're going to load our egg.
So right let egg scene is equal to c and c and to access our scene.
First we need to navigate to the first directory which is media
don't see and assets slash AG dust seen
now we need to load the node that's inside of the scene and the node is an immediate child of the same
node.
So back to the Wii controller right.
Node is equal to exceed dot node child node and the name of the node.
I'm not too sure.
To be honest with you it's AG.
So copy and paste this and recursively will be false since the egg is an immediate child of the scene
views node of the scene root node.
Now we need to place the egg node in the position that was specified for it.
So whatever X Y or Z that was specified.
And finally add the egg to the scene view by writing self and this is a very silly mistake for me it's
equal to seeing vector 3 x y and z.
And finally just add it to the scene view by writing self does scene view that scene the root node child
node AG node and you know what.
Let me just write this remove this question mark and we should be get to go run the app going to wait
till the world or you know as soon as it loads I'm going to add my target's there they're now we need
something to shoot these tags whenever the screen is touched.
So back to the controller declare a tap gesture recognizer.
So right let gesture recognizer is equal to you I tap gesture recognizer with Target's self and the
actual function that's going to get triggered when we tap the scene view.
Let me just stop writing the app before doing anything.
And the actual function that will be triggered when we tap the scene view will be handled top.
So right here right phunk handle top with arguments sender of type you tab gesture recognizer and no
return value in place handle type in your selector handle type and make sure to expose this to objective
c and everything should work fine.
Now and this gesture recognizer to the scene view by writing self scene view gesture recognizer gesture
recognizer.
So whenever we tap the screen we want to shoot a bullet in Hendel top and we want to shoot a bullet
such that the bullet flies off in the camera view of the film.
The bullet will simply be a red sphere with a radius of zero point three.
This follows the exact same logic as shooting the basketball.
So pause the video and give this one a try.
First off guard let scene view is equal to center of view as they as C-n view.
Ritter
what this line of code word just making sure that the view that was stopped on is at the scene view.
If it's not then return the card statement will always succeed since the function only gets triggered
if we tapped on the scene view anyway.
You need the point of view of the camera so guard let point of view is equal to seen view point of view
else return.
So from the point of view of the camera we can get the transform matrix by writing a let transform is
equal to.
Point of view transform from the transform we can get the current orientation and location of the film
camera view.
So right left orientation is equal to s c and vector 3.
As we discussed before the x value of the camera's orientation is in column 3 row 1 so right transform
thought and 3 1 the y value is and wrote.
So transform it.
And 3 2 and the Zed value is in column 3.
Row 3.
We also discussed that the orientation we're given is always reversed.
If you're confused as to why that is make sure to visit Section 3 of the drawing up any way to reverse
the orientation give each value a negative.
And now we need the current location of the camera view.
So right let location is equal to see a vector 3 transform.
M for one.
The location is in column for The X field as in row 1 the Y field is in row 2 and 4 to the set field
respectively as in row 3.
Now combine the location and orientation by writing let position is equal to orientation plus location
and we should get an error very soon since we cannot add to the vector of 3 operands and there is r
unless we modify this binary operator which we will right now by declaring a function plus and modify
the binary operator.
Just that it takes to SC and vector three operands left operand and a right one.
CN adductor 3.
And from the two vectors return another three dimensional vector as C and vector 3.
And now return as c in vector 3 make such that we're making a new vector from these two vectors but
by adding the x value.
So right left dot X plus right dot x.
We're also adding there are y values so left or Y plus right Dalt Y as well as there is that values
left does that plus right.
Now that we have the current position of the camera we need to place the bullet in the current position.
First we need to declare a bullet node and do that by writing that bullet is equal to see a node with
a geometry of a sphere seat and sphere with a radius of zero point three meters.
You know what I did say the radius would be 0.3 but make zero point once.
Bullets are usually small.
OK now give the sphere a color of your choice.
I'm going to give it a color of red by writing bullet geometry.
The first material diffuse dot contents is equal to you white color red.
Again feel free to give it any color that you want.
Now position the bullet in the current position of the camera by writing bullet.
That position is equal to position and now from the current position of the camera.
We need to shoot the bullet.
In other words we need to apply force on the bullet to apply a force on the bullet the bullet needs
to be a physical body.
We discussed physics bodies in great detail in the vehicle up so right left body is equal to s c in
physics body the type of the body will be dynamic such that we want our bullet to be effected by forces
like the applied force that we want to apply on it.
And ask for shape right a C and physics shape
and the shape that we want our body to apply is the shape of our bullet node and we don't want any options
so just leave that as no now a sign this physics body to our node by writing bullet physics body is
equal to body.
Now finally we need to apply a force on the bullet.
We did that in the last section simply by a writing bullet physics body.
Does it apply force.
And the first argument is the direction into which you're applying the force the direction in which
you're applying the force is simply where your camera is facing.
So the orientation of the camera.
So right I see in vector three orientation X orientation dot Y and orientation Gartside and as impulse
will be true.
Since we want the effect of the force to be instantaneous we want the bullet to be fired off right away.
And finally just add the bullet to the scene if you by writing self scene view the scene.
No doubt child Noad bullet
now just run up
mithai up the screen.
This doesn't seem like much of a bullet effect when the bullet to be faster such that it's also not
affected by gravity.
So the view controller declares a variable var power of type float is equal to 50
and multiply every direction in which you are applying your force by the power of times power for the
next Times power for the Y and times power for this and so the bullet will be 50 times more powerful
in every direction that the force was applied to it.
And finally right.
Body is affected by gravity is equal to false so that the bullet doesn't experience any gravity it just
keeps moving straight run up
going to wait till my world orange and loads once it loads your targets and now try and shoot your targets
and obviously nothing happens.
Now we need the bullet to actually collide with the X let me just stop running the app.
Now the eggs we want them to stay in place not be affected by any forces however still be able to collide
with other objects.
So what kind of physics body should the egg be.
I hope you guessed stuck.
So in your view controller right leg node does physics body is equal to a C and physics body but static
run the up
going to wait until my world origin loads once the origin loads add your targets.
And now if I shoot the bullet it collides with the eggs.
However if I shoot the bullet from the side.
So somewhere like here now seat when I shot the bullet from the side there was no collision.
The problem is right here by declaring the node simply static.
Let me just stop writing me up by declaring the node simply as static.
We're not giving the physics body a shape.
If you don't give the physics body an exact shape collision will be estimated based on the rendered
geometry of the node.
However if I write this instead
fudged expand the arguments and leave the type as static but this time declare a shape.
So I see in physics shape node will simply be the node
and so right now the physics body when it wants to perform contact detection when it wants to detect
a contact between two nodes.
It uses the physics shape of this know the egg node it's solid volume instead of a render geometry to
better and more precisely detect contact leave the options is no we don't need them run the up
going to wait till the world origin loads soon as the world order unknown's I'm going to add my targets.
Now if I shoot one of the eggs where ever I shoot it it's going to collide with the egg because now
collision is better tuned to fit the entire shape of the note.
And now we need it such that one should dig the egg blows up we'll do that in the next video.